recent
recently alex and i shot a video
assembling what is the very first
linus media group manufactured
cpu water block now of course our
objective though in all of that was not
to build a cpu water block because quite
frankly we could call up our friends at
alphacool ek swift basically anyone and
they would do a much better job of it
than we did no offense yeah not taken
the objective was for us to water cool a
red 8k camera but baby steps right so
this was doing something pretty normal
where we could basically clone a chinese
design
and then just put it on the cnc
today
we kick things up a notch with this
we're gonna water cool something a
little unusual our 10 gigabit 12 port
network switch from netgear that was
actually the first 10 gigabit piece of
equipment that we got
well not counting like network cards
like
like a switch
the hot docs uses the ergodox design
which keeps you comfortable typing away
for long periods of time and features
qmk firmware and hot swappable key
switches check it out at the link below
uh so this is it
um
they don't get
their network switch anymore in the
camera then yep just unplug it yep all
right
well
oh crap we were supposed to do the sound
test first that's kind of the whole
point if you guys
it's really loud
yeah
this is going to be a very inexact
unscientific
test here
56 decibels sure on boot up okay let's
water cool it
how much does steve pay us for all this
product placement that he gets on our
channel
like nothing
so
the reason that network switches are
really loud and run really hot is not
necessarily because the hardware inside
them it has a ton of power draw or
anything like that it's because cooling
them is a real challenge most network
switches even at the prosumer level are
in what's called a single u which is the
i don't know the universal unit that's
where the u comes from
i'm just kidding i made all of that up
for height in a rack so that means you
can only use these wimpy 40 millimeter
fans
and a lot of the time you also don't
have a lot of ventilation holes for
whatever reason what's funny i actually
brought my own
handle because i was using this for
something
before we started
so i can help
oh man
i just stripped that bit
that took a long time
i'm gonna go get a bigger screwdriver
oh there's the one he stripped
oh
bloody hell i just stripped this one too
see i just had to go in straight that's
what my mom always said what i'm
actually really looking forward to this
i have it's it's a funny thing because
like computers the first thing i do with
them is open them up like laptops and
stuff
but it's never occurred to me to open up
our 10 gig network switch
is this one that's still not oh
oh there we go
so up and back cool holy crap there's a
lot of stuff to cool in here what is
this are they ripping us off huh is
there another port that they don't put
on the front maybe they're just afraid
of having it be 13. so here's our power
supply that we're definitely not going
to touch or even get close to so my
intention had been to keep it 1u
mountable though
oh okay yeah but then just have like
tubing out like quick connects or
something and then like an external rad
okay i mean that's one option i'm not
married to it though for whatever reason
in my mind i was picturing kind of like
this goes on here yeah
and we just like
cut two holes for tubing
and then mount a rad like
right here
like full like like engine blocks
showing through the top of the hood
muscle car muscle switch and then i
guess if you really wanted to we could
put like some t-connectors in there so
you can make it a 1u have it go out the
side so it looks like every one
of these heat sinks
is hard mounted
so there's screws going in from the
bottom of the pcb and this whole main
board needs to come out before we're
going to be able to remove any of this
now to be clear this is not as
expensive as a red camera
but this is still today
what like an 800 network switch or
something like that i have no clue yeah
let's be careful with it because i can't
remember how much it costs either it's
not cheap though i always wonder if we
could just get away with putting little
copper things on here sort of like you
said but then run a heat pipe just
straight across all of them if we used a
ball nose bit that was the right size we
could cut a channel
right in the top of it the right size
for the heat pipe yep and then just
solder it on and and then we managed to
spread the heat out that way okay and
that way we've just got this big
spreader that'll carry the heat
theoretically hopefully
towards our cooling yeah
okay
wait a minute what oh
those all soldered on there's no way how
could they possibly be
that's gonna be a pain in the butt
should i go get the soldering iron yeah
all right
what do you think the chances are that
they're soldered on and then epoxied
underneath i was just thinking
oh we do have a wig how hard do you
think it is just snip those
oh
ah
there
easy as pie
i should have been wearing eye
protection for that
brandon you're wearing glasses right
yeah
i think we can get in there and just
give her like a little snip
you got to be kidding me oh you you're
doing it you actually did it
you actually did that works so well
everybody's got eye protection on me
everybody's going to be screaming so
much like they got so mad when i just
like hacked off the dvi connector and
that's like
a bunch of pins
that one hit over there and then landed
over there
this is that is so dumb what we're doing
wow
yeah not bad
so you got a couple challenges
these look like they're up a little high
so we might end up having to kind of go
around them um also
not all these holes came clear so we
might have to either pop them back out
or actually desolder them properly if we
want mounting points for our block
yeah your copper slab to cover it
is probably the simplest way here's our
main cpu block
and then
we do a short heat pipe here and a long
heat pipe here this is actually going to
be pretty difficult
yeah i don't know why i wasn't thinking
it would be difficult
but it's going to be quite difficult
can we can we do this where i actually
here hold on hold on hold on can can we
can we pretend that i had something to
do with this and i'm like oh god what
did you do
okay you can do it so
how did you do that over the last week
or so he created this fantastic
well i mean what would you call this
model yeah it's just like a little model
so we have the switch here all the
critical measurements for our water
cooling is in there and you ended up
buying new calipers for that is that
right uh yeah is it the big daddy
caliper no it's the alex's calipers
and these are really fancy because
they're just very repeatable and
expensive
we had problems in the past where i
would measure a bunch of things and
error would stack up so i guess there
were a couple problems that we had to
solve here
so the first is that i was pretty
concerned that having this many heat
sources on one heat pipe would cause
problems
so we have this paper here that sort of
solved this for us which is an
investigation of thermal characteristics
on a centered wick heat pipe with double
heat sources basically tells us you want
your heat sources to be as close to the
condenser as possible
so our condenser is effectively this
segment of the heat pipe right here
where it will be thermal epoxy to this
copper plate which is going to be water
cooled and then i guess other things
jonathan from ascend ceiling contacted
us uh
and we have a heck ton of o-rings like
he's just
he's just been raining o-rings on us
so so we have better o-rings this time
yeah and also his card stock is amazing
like look at this it's quality yeah can
we get some of this no and yeah we have
new o-ring lube so basically
nothing can go wrong yeah well things
can go wrong but that's what we're about
to get to the hard part though
is that we have to actually machine this
so
how do you machine a rounded groove
so we have a ball-nosed end mill
so that's just like it's round on the
end and you just kind of
kind of just like that which was this
was like surprisingly hard to get to
work properly
so big shout out to cj from autodesk he
really
it's going to be like half a sketchy one
because we can't go any lower than 78
000 rpm
on our cnc router so really we should be
using a mil for this we should be using
a mil for this but we don't have a mill
because they're expensive yes when
you're going to cut metal you need to
make sure that every single time that
the tooth comes around you're actually
like cutting out a chunk of metal or
it's just going to rub and it's going to
burn it out really fast so since we
can't make the tool spin slower we need
to run it faster
we're being safe right yep i don't want
people yelling at us about our cnc
yeah do you want to plug in the air
compressor yeah i'd love to we do have
actual mist cooling now so everyone
that's saying you should have cooling we
already have to blanket
well you can definitely see the shmoo
here
so is this just getting like more and
more legit every time we do a video yeah
basically this is leaking
yeah it got dropped
so we're ready yep can i press go
uh
i like to feel like i'm helping
and that's the tool that we have so yeah
that is not that clean looking no
no
and we're done so what happened there
was the piece of copper that we're
trying to cut
shifted which means that
the entire tool path that alex laid out
is now offset by
about three quarters of a centimeter so
it's possible
that we would have ended up with
something usable but our thermal
transfer is not going to be great
i mean if it had held down we would have
something here anyway
i could
that's really bad for the tool and we
have to make four of them
and we're back this time with a bit of a
new plan
so
now we have bolted
our copper plate down to the bed
we have also made some canadian
engineering repairs to our reservoir
down here it no longer leaks thanks to
some hand mix epoxy and uh we have done
away with our plan to make rounded
grooves because we don't have a mill we
only have a router so why don't we just
let the work speak for itself instead of
telling them what's gonna happen i can
press go now right um
hey
[Music]
let's see the finished product so this
is going to be the top of one of our
blocks
this is going to be the top of one of
our other more different blocks
this is the block we made last time
which is still here again for some
reason we're using the bottom of it oh
we're just reusing it yeah i mean why
dull your bits when you don't have to oh
is this it yeah
so this is
the moment of truth right now oh
perfect it really is actually
yeah it's 0.1 of a millimeter oversized
good work
i'm happy with that
um i guess we just need to clean these
off and
tap them
look at that it just looks so good
underneath completely see-through we
didn't bother facing it this time
that should go there yeah that goes
right and then we'll have the three that
go down the middle
here
whoa that's a lot of copper
now you told me pro mode was gonna have
the heat pipe on the bottom so that we
were like heat pipe direct touch cooling
yeah
are we doing that with this one no not
with this one no
that's gonna be version two what do you
mean version two we need to get this
done because ed's mad they don't have
a switch for their ingest crap
but
just crap yeah ingest crap we don't we
don't need these videos
but yeah we're going to have to redesign
this guy and alphacool is coming up with
those like the server-sized
heatsinks so those are going to like go
in the side and it's going to look super
legit but until then we're just going to
like have it linus tech 2 style just
like
below the ingest station
do these screws go through
not quite
we don't have to widen the holes in the
pcb do we
are you kidding me
well it's potentially going to be the
quietest and coolest switch on
like everywhere arguably a switch that
doesn't power on anymore is very quiet
and very cool
ah this bit might actually be too small
that went super well nope we're good
what that was it yep that's that's all
we needed oh
nice
we should probably give this a little
dusty here yeah
something
yeah
this is pretty bad
yeah it was definitely one of the worser
ideas i've ever seen like am i just
going at it with this i like
legitimately straight up forget how to
do it um what about this time we just
like clamp it like this yeah
off the table yeah
you can just kind of get this on the
side like like so and blame obama okay
there are a lot of people that were
really mad last time that we didn't use
the drill press to do this so it would
go down perfectly straight oh yeah that
would be smart wouldn't it yeah it
really would you guys want to do that
nope nope
wait what the crap is this
crap is what this hole
doesn't go all the way straight through
the drill press had an issue
yeah it's good okay
this is the really bad one i don't know
about that well you'll be able to tell
from the bottom
oh jeez what did you just do
that is that's pure carnage right there
oh god
that's a lot of acrylic on the floor
yeah uh these don't quite line up well
like
do you want to tap those holes again oh
they're all the way over here
oh crap
okay so we're just kind of doing the
same thing as last time then yep
acrylate me
extra cyano on the side
and theoretically it will seal
we're asking for a lot of tight
tolerances to
line up here yep
we're gonna put
that
through a plastic washer
okay
so that goes there
then we do another plastic washer i'm
assuming
um yeah
okay
can we do a nut yup not me
there
so i've realized something really
unfortunate
where this right here screws in i
thought that it was just like nuts on
the back that came up
yeah but it's actually screwed right
into the chassis
yeah i don't know if these can come off
oh
i can't believe that you got all these
holes to mostly sort of line up
i measured it
are you guys as excited as we are to see
if this thing is still gonna work
i am
[Music]
i'm amped
assuming that we didn't kill it
it's gonna work pretty well i mean we
didn't do anything that bad to it
not
really
we're not gonna actually power on the
switch
we're just gonna power this pump and
then make sure that nothing leaks
did you fart
yeah but like a couple minutes ago
it's really lingering oh well i'm sorry
about that
it's awkward
all right
well given that our system here has
passed our exhaustive three-minute uh
stress test
would you say we're ready to power it on
yeah
there's a light david
oh it's green identifying it's green
that means 10 gig link oh yeah test
and there it goes indeed
boom
okay so now what no now we we actually
get to put it together yeah i guess so
okay
damn
i have screen cap going so you don't
need to come over here
there is one more test though it's
possible that we're not making good
contact with uh anything like we
actually don't know that just because
it's working that means it's working
well i love that our fans just say
failure because they're not they're not
plugged in
question for you though yeah uh did you
get new like quieter 40 millimeter fans
to replace these well i guess if it's
just open can we just stick like
a 140 on top or something
yes
yes we can
all right
yeah so what we can do
is we can take this puppy
put it on
do a 140 millimeter cutout
mount the radiator to that
so that nothing could slip through put
the fan on top and put a fan grill on
disassemble this
and put it in and i'll get a hole in
here sure cool are you gonna measure
where the hole goes yep
so i think we're almost done here
um
okay
speak for yourself because we need to
power the pump
oh
i think what we have to do is plug in
the power supply and start probing
[Music]
it's in panic mode and i put it in the
ammeter oh
all right
well
let's see if anything still works
12 volts yay wow
it's a christmas friggin miracle okay
so
that is
ground and 12 volt
look here
so ground is the far left 12 volt is the
third theoretically
orange is ground what
the
black is positive 12 volt and yes jake
it matters
okay
i have good news though
look
what i found
what in the bowls is that this is a six
pin pci express adapter see these two
pins it's a six to eight pin adapter we
can use these two wires to find our 12
volt power and then splice that onto the
power connector for the pump
so then as long as we get the right two
pins then we're good
okay so what did i say orange was ground
black was 12 volt yup neat
theoretically
when i plug in the switch
it will turn on with no sparks
power leds lit
and
theoretically okay more sanity check
time
i have 12 volts here
oh
huzzah
what a nightmare
yeah now it just needs to get connected
to this yeah
other than the hole in beginning
this is actually surprisingly like sort
of properly done
yeah like sort of properly
i mean there's no proper way to do
something that's stupid
yeah like i guess if we could get a
couple zip ties in there like yeah
100 pro
all right
a couple ltt cable ties get that
shilling in there oh yeah um a bit
concerned about putting this on how come
we have to kind of go over the tubes
and
just not slice them
well but can you get your hand in there
when it's like that uh yeah i have small
hands
here if you let go here i can help you
align this side
we might as well well have these ones
kind of come up similarly you know
okay
[Laughter]
[Music]
the best part is that like it looks so
good on the inside like it's pretty like
pro like
all machine and stuff and on the outside
it's just like straight like ghetto like
not even the same color tubes
hot rodded like
it's not very space efficient
it's very
heat efficient yeah does it work faster
no
it's a lot quieter
yeah did you see how quiet it is i don't
think i ever actually heard it so that
didn't seem like an issue to me but uh
it was like
yeah it was pretty loud
it's still working temperatures are
actually lower but we have a fan running
on the radiator now so that's an
improvement yeah we're looking at 27 and
28 degrees
compared to like 51 and 42 before it's
dead silent
and let's do a quick file transfer here
here we go
i'm liking it
backblaze is an unlimited cloud backup
for macs and pcs that's just six bucks a
month they've restored over 35 billion
files and they back up documents music
photos videos drawings projects pretty
much anything and you can restore your
files from anywhere you can directly
download them from the web or restore
them by mail even their mobile app gives
you access to your files on the go and
actually this is great if you do the
restore by mail option you can purchase
restore via hard drive they will
overnight fedex do the drive and then
after you copy everything to your new
storage device you can return the hard
drive to them for a refund there's no
wonky cost structures and it is truly
unlimited data backup at a fixed price
so try it out fully featured for 15 days
for nothing at backblaze.com
ltt
go there play with it start protecting
yourself from potential bad times and
let us know in the comments below how
much you like it so thanks for watching
guys if you disliked this video you can
press that button but if you liked it
hit like get subscribed and maybe
consider checking out where to buy the
stuff we featured at the link in the
video description also down there is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
this one and our community forum
which is definitely worth a join